>> Good morning.
My name is Roger Pantos and I work on the
QuickTime engineering team here at Apple.
And today what I'd like to talk to you about
is how with iPhone OS 3.0 or Snow Leopard,
you can watch live streams on your devices using HTTP.
Now for some of you, that whole notion is like coming
out of nowhere, so let me set that up a little bit
for you by looking at some recent history.
The iPhone has always been able to
play back movies over the network.
Using HTTP content requests, we were able to provide
a really high quality user experience essentially
by playing static movie files off of HTTP servers,
and we call that technique progressive download.
It works extremely well for content
that's already been produced
such as podcasts or video podcasts, or even YouTube.
And it has been extremely popular on the iPhone.
In fact, YouTube is one of the most
popular applications we ship on the iPhone.
But the moment we supported it, we immediately
started getting another feature request.
What about live content?
People wanted to be able to watch events
as they were occurring on their phones.
They wanted to be able to watch newscasts;
they wanted to be able to watch baseball games.
And so when we decided to address this, we
started by figuring out what our goals would be.
The first thing we decided was we wanted
to build something that would be tuned
for large-scale broadcast-style content delivery.
We wanted something that would scale
up to millions of simultaneous viewers.
Now one of the things we have learned from our previous
experience with streaming is that if you have to build
up your own infrastructure to scale to that
level of demand, it can be extremely expensive.
And for a lot of companies, that
expense is cost prohibitive.
So in addition to being scalable, we also wanted to build
something that would scale in a way that was cost effective.
Another thing we learned from our streaming experience was
that we wanted something that would negotiate firewalls
and NATs, network address translation
boxes, fairly effectively.
This improves the user experience and it reduces our
customer support cost, and it also reduces yours.
Finally, we wanted to build something that was easy.
We wanted it to be easy to adopt, and we wanted it to be
easy to interoperate with the existing production systems
that content producers have for producing live streams.
One of the keys to doing this was
to leverage existing standards.
So we sat down with these goals, and
when we started thinking about them,
we concluded pretty quickly that we wanted to use HTTP.
We have a lot of experience with HTTP and we like it a lot.
It is extremely widely deployed and well supported.
Just about every company in the world now has
a website, and there are a lot of companies
that have really highly-skilled people
who can make those websites sing.
The other thing about HTTP is that it has demonstrated
the ability to deliver massive amounts of data.
Just at Apple, we deliver hundreds of
gigabytes everyday just in software updates.
There are a number of proven techniques that
you can use to scale HTTP to high demand.
You can offload a single server
by using server load balancing.
You can create caching proxies that will
help you scale your demand geographically.
And finally, there is an entire industry of companies,
the so-called content delivery networks, CDNs,
Akamais, Limelights, people like that,
that is set up to essentially rent you
the capacity to scale HTTP on-demand.
And so it's an extremely cost effective way of delivering
massive amounts of information over the internet.
Finally, HTTP is extremely adept at passing through
firewalls, and because it's so popular on the internet,
just about every network address translation
box is preconfigured to support out of the box.
This is extremely important particularly for iPhone users,
because iPhones will often access a
network through a NATed Wi-Fi hotspot.
And some of these hotspots are in places like airports and
coffee shops where even if the user was knowledgeable enough
to reconfigure the NAT, they have
no administrative access to it.
So it was really important to find a solution
that would work well with firewalls and NATs.
The thing about HTTP though, is that it's really
tuned, it's really optimized, it's really prioritized
to delivering static files, that's what all the
third-party supported products are designed for,
that's what all the infrastructure
has really been set up for.
And so, but you have to ask yourself,
OK, how do we take something like HTTP
that really delivers those static
files and deliver live streams over it?
Well, the first approach you can think of is
probably not too far from what we're actually doing.
Let's take a look.
What we do is up there on the left, we
start with a live audio/video signal.
This signal could be coming directly from a
camera, it could be coming off a satellite feed,
it could even be coming off a tape deck, whatever.
We take that audio/video signal and
we feed it into a media encoder.
Now what this media encoder will do is, digitize the signal,
encode it, and produce a continuous stream of digital media.
That stream of digital media is
then sent to the segmenter step.
What we do in the segmenter is, we divide
that continuous stream of digital media
into a series of individual segment files.
And typically each segment file has
about the same duration of media,
so for instance each segment file
might be ten seconds of media.
Once we have these individual segment files, we
have something that we can place on a web server
and that can then use the native
capabilities of HTTP to distribute
through the cloud to our clients on the other end.
So now what I'd like to do is take a look at this in action,
and so I'm going to invite my colleague,
Bill May, come up on stage.
And what we're going to show you is
a third-party application from CNN,
I think we showed it to you a little
earlier in the week as well.
It's the cnn.com application, so Bill is going
to click it here and it's going to come up.
The first thing it's going to do is, it's
going to go off the network and it's going
to populate itself with some news of the day.
There's a live tab down at the bottom, Bill has clicked it.
And so now you can see the live
features of the CNN application.
So if you tap on that large picture at
the top, that will launch the live feed.
And so it's launching here now.
>> And [phoen audio] accuracy is very important -
>> And here we are.
There we go, OK.
>> She's a record holder now, she holds three now -
>> Wow.
>> -- world records.
[ Applause ]
>> And it looks great, it's really fantastic.
And the cnn.com developers were able to add this capability
to their application really with
just a couple of lines of code.
And so it's very simple to watch CNN on
your phone, but it's also very awesome.
And so we're really excited about that.
What we're going to do next is take you a little bit behind
the scenes and show you the equipment we were actually using
to demonstrate, to put together that demo.
In this case, the audio/video input that we were starting
from was originating at the CNN broadcast center in Atlanta.
The audio/video signal was being sent
into an Inlet Technologies Spinnaker 7000.
Now this is a box that can consume an analog
signal and produce an MPEG2 transport stream.
So we take that MPEG2 transport stream and we
send it via multi-cast UDP across a local network
to a segmenter program that's running on an XServe.
The segmenter program consumes the transport stream,
divides it up into a series of segment files,
and places it onto a web server which then
acts as an origin to the Akamai network.
The iPhone we have up here on the stage was able
to pull those files off a local edge
server from Akamai here in San Francisco.
That's kind of the marketing level overview.
What I'd like to do next talk a little bit
more about how the actual protocol works.
So as I said, we start by having a server that converts
a continuous stream of media into segment files.
As it's writing these segment files to
disc, it's also maintaining a playlist file.
And now a playlist file is essentially
just a file that has a list of all
of the segment files that are available on the server.
So when we want to play, the way it works is, the
client starts by downloading the playlist file,
now it has a list of all the available segments, it
downloads each segment in turn and then plays them.
In the case of a live stream, after it's done that, it will
then go back to the server, redownload the playlist file,
and see what's changed, see if there are new segments.
So clearly the key to all of this is this notion of
a playlist file that is continuously being updated.
So I want to show you how that looks.
What we have up here is a diagram of a series of
segment files that have been produced by our segmenter.
Those blue segment files in the box are the
files that actually appeared in the playlist.
You'll notice off to the right we have segment number six.
It's not in the playlist yet because
it's actually currently being written.
Remember that we were going to write about ten seconds of
media into each file, and so we always have a current file
that we're writing the media into, and maybe it's only two
or three seconds in, so it's not part of the playlist yet.
But if we wait ten seconds and then down load that playlist
again, you'll see that now we have still three segments
in the playlist file, but now segment six has
become the last segment in the playlist file.
You'll also note that segment three is no longer in
a playlist file because we have a live playlist here,
we have a fixed number of segment files
in the playlist at any given time.
So as a new segment file is added to the
playlist, the old segment file rolls off the top.
So let me show what a playlist file actually looks like.
Here we go.
When we went looking at the different playlist
file formats that had already been defined,
we ended up choosing the M3U playlist file format.
It's extremely popular on the internet
largely because it is extremely simple.
An M3U file is essentially just a text file that contains
a list of URLs, each URL being a byte of media to play.
The other thing an M3U file has in it are tags, these
are these things that are prefixed by hash mark.
So that first tag you see up there, EXTM3U simply indicates
that this text file is an extended
M3U playlist, that's thay guy there.
The next tags, the ones that have the X in
them, are tags that we added to the M3U format
to support this notion of a dynamic playlist.
So this one here, TARGETDURATION, indicates to the client
that when new segments are added to the playlist file,
the likely duration of each segment, the new segment
that will be added next, is probably going to be
about ten seconds, and that is used as a hint to
the client when it's refreshing that playlist file.
The next tag, the media sequence number,
indicates the media sequence number
of the first URL that appears in the playlist.
And what the client uses this for is to resync itself
inside the playlist when it refreshes the playlist,
because it may not be refreshing a playlist
in sync with how the server is recreating it.
And so right now the media sequence is one
and the first segment in the playlist is one.
If we were to wait ten seconds and download it again,
then you'll see segment one rolls off the
top, the media sequence number is two.
And in fact, the first segment in the
playlist file is two, and so on and so forth.
So those are the media sequence tags.
That's essentially how the live playlist works.
As new segments are added to the
bottom, all segments roll off the top.
So now let's take a closer look at one of those
individual segments and see what kind of animals they are.
The primary file format for segment
files is an MPEG2 transport stream.
Now an MPEG2 transport stream is an industry
standard for the representation of continuous media.
It is extremely popular in the broadcast industry.
It is used by cable providers.
It is used by over-the-air digital TV transmission.
It is used by satellite providers.
And in fact now it's also being used by Blu-ray.
One of the advantages of the ubiquity of this standard
in the industry is that there are already a large number
of third-party products, both hardware and software,
and also people who understand MPEG2 transport streams.
One of the things about MPEG2 transport streams however,
is that there is a certain amount
of overhead associated with them.
Now this overhead is not such a big
deal when you have both audio and video,
but it really starts to show up
when you have audio-only streams.
So for this reason, we also support as a
supplementary format, MPEG elementary audio streams.
And what these guys are, is essentially just a series
of audio packets catenated together into a file.
And they're extremely well suited for delivering
high-quality audio at extremely low byte rates.
Speaking of which, what kind of codecs
are we using inside these containers?
Well there's no surprise here.
MPEG2 transport streams contain audio and video.
For the video, it's H.264.
That means on the iPhone H.264 baseline profile, level 3.0.
On a desktop machine where you've got
larger displays and some faster processors,
we'll support currently up to H.264 high profile level 4.0.
For audio, our recommendation is to use HE-AAC version one.
And the reason we recommend it is because it
produces the highest audio quality at the sort
of byte rates that we typically use for streaming.
These byte rates typically for audio are between
32 kilobytes and 80 kilobytes per second.
We also support the traditional low
complexity AAC as well as our old standby MP3.
So if you have some media which is encoded with H.264
video, AAC audio, you put it into a transport stream,
you chop it up into segments and stick it on
the web, you can play it in your application.
How do you do it?
Well it's easy.
On the iPhone we play live HTTP streams using the
same API that we play for progressive download.
The only difference is that the URL you feed
to the MPMoviePlayerController is the URL
to the playlist file rather than to a static MP4 file.
You can also play live streams in mobile Safari.
And to do that, you'll use the HTML 5 video
tag, and you'll provide the URL of the M3U file
as the source attribute of the video tag.
On the desktop we can play HTTP live streams through QTKit.
HTTP live streaming is one of the new
features of the QuickTime X support in QTKit,
it's one of the benefits you get from
adopting QuickTime X in your application.
And so the way you get it is use
the QTMovie initWithAttributes call,
you set the QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute
to yes to activate the QuickTime X support.
And then you provide again the URL to the
playlist file as the QTMovie URL attribute.
So that is essentially all you need to know to play live
streams on your applications, it's very straightforward.
But I'm standing up here, I've got some
time, so I'd like to talk to you about a few
of the more advanced features that
we offer in HTTP streaming.
The first one is media encryption.
A number of content owners care a
lot about protecting their assets,
and so we provide the ability to
encrypt the segment files in transit.
Another thing we have is the ability to
capture a live stream as it's being streamed,
capture a live event for later playback, and
we refer to that as on-demand presentations.
And finally, perhaps one of the most exciting features
in HTTP live streaming is the ability for the player
to switch dynamically between streams of different
byte rates to adapt to the current network quality.
So let's talk about encryption first.
When we encrypt segment files,
we use 128 byte AAS encryption.
While inside the segment file, we use Cipher Block
Chaining, and on the edges, we pad them with PKCS7 padding.
Encryption is typically done at the segmentation phase.
So we'll encrypt the segment files
before we distribute them off the web.
After you've encrypted the segment files, the next
step is to deliver the encryption keys to your clients.
Now the encryption keys are delivered over HTTP, and so it's
up to you to set up some means of access control to ensure
that only authorized clients are
able to retrieve those keys.
And to do this you can use any of a set of
well-known, well-established HTTP techniques
such as creating a secure realm that requires HTTP
authentication, or establishing a secure session cookie
and requiring the presence of that
cookie in order to release the key.
And so let's take a look at how encryption
is represented in the playlist file.
You'll see that we have a new tag
up here, it's the X key tag.
And what it's telling us is that for all
subsequent media files that appear in the playlist,
they will be encrypted using AES-128 encryption,
and that the key to decrypting those files
can be obtained from this URL here.
If you want to, you can switch the key you're using
once you've decided you've encrypted enough files
with it, you can rotate the keys.
And the way you do this is you just add a
new instance of the tag into the playlist.
So what this playlist is now saying is that segment
39 is encrypted with the first key, and now segment 40
and all subsequent segments will be encrypted by it
with the second key, at least until it changes again.
So using this technique, you can encrypt your media,
but you can still deliver your media
over HTTP which is fast and cheap.
The next thing I'd like to talk about
is live versus on-demand presentations.
Now essentially the only difference here
in our terminology of live presentations is
that when you're adding new segments
onto the end of a playlist file,
the old ones disappear off the top, they do that.
But what if they didn't disappear off the top?
What if while you were adding new segments to your
playlist file you simply kept the old the ones.
Well that's an on-demand presentation.
And they're really focused at two different usage models.
The first is, well let's say you're CNN,
let's say you're a 24-hour news station.
You're broadcasting continuously, you don't want to keep all
of your segment files on your website going back 50 days.
You don't want to have your playlist
file expanding indefinitely.
And so you'd use a live presentation, the guy on top.
On the other hand, let's say that you're
broadcasting a baseball game for instance.
Something that has a well-defined beginning and
a well-defined end is actually really well suited
for on-demand playback, because I as a viewer could tune
into the baseball game half an hour after it started,
but I could still watch it from the beginning.
I could also seek around it a little bit, or
even jump to live and start watching it live.
And so there are some benefits of having all
the segments remain available on the server.
And so we offer a choice there.
When the game ends, in the example of the
baseball game, the last segment file is added
to the playlist and the playlist is marked as complete.
This tells the client they can stop
refreshing the playlist for changes.
So now let's compare the actual playlist
files of live streams versus on-demand steams.
The first on the left here is a live playlist and as I
said earlier, what happens is every time a segment is added
to the end of the playlist file
an old segment rolls off the top.
Well contrast that with an on-demand playlist file.
So segments start coming in here at the beginning when
the game begins and they'll remain in the playlist
as new segments are added until the game ends.
And this might end at segment 1130 for instanc0e.
The last thing the server is going to do
is place an endless tag into the playlist,
and this informs the client that
the playlist is now complete.
What you have at this point is something that is
kind of akin to a progressive download situation
where you have a bunch of media up on your
web server, the client can go back to it
at any point they want and watch it in its entirety.
The only difference between HTTP live streaming on-demand
playlist and the more traditional sticking MPEG4 files
up on the HTTP server is that today our players give
you a little less control in terms of the granularity
of seeking around in an on-demand playlist.
But you still get the benefits of
encryption and stream switching,
so you kind of have to decide which one makes more sense.
But one of the nice things about on-demand is
that it's almost instantaneous to transition
from broadcasting a live event to having an
archive available as on-demand on your server.
Speaking of stream switching, let's talk
about the problems of network variability.
So when I say network variability, what I'm
essentially saying is that you've got your iPhone,
you've got your Macintosh, and you're
downloading information from the network.
The network bandwith that is available to
you through whatever connection you have,
is going to vary, and sometimes it's going to vary a lot.
This has always been a problem for anyone
who wants to stream video over the internet.
But the iPhone particularly has this problem in spades.
Versus let's say you're starting at home and
your iPhone is associated with your Wi-Fi hotspot
at home, it's backed up by your cable modem.
You've got tons of great bandwith available to you.
But then you leave.
You walk out of your house, you take your iPhone with
you, you drop off your Wi-Fi network onto 3G today,
that drop off in bandwith is considerable.
And the variations don't stop there.
As you walk around with your iPhone, as you pass buildings,
as you go under trees, as you get closer to cells,
as you get further away from cell towers,
your bandwith will change considerably.
You don't even have to move in fact.
With 3G the bandwith will change depending
on how many people are in your cell
and how many people are using the
network in your cell to the back hall.
And so the iPhone particularly needs to deal with a
network bandwith that is fluctuating continuously.
Now if all you had was a single stream at a single
byte rate and you wanted to deliver that to your users,
you've got this kind of ugly choice you have to make.
On the one hand, you could encode a low
byte rate stream that everyone could watch.
Great, but it's not going to look very good.
On the other hand, you could encode a
higher byte rate stream that looks great,
but most of your users will not be able to
sustain that bandwidth as they're downloading it.
And sustaining the bandwith is
particularly important for live streams.
The reason being that if you have to stop and buffer for 20
or 30 seconds beca0use your network connection can't keep up,
well you have live content that's
expiring on the server as you're waiting.
When you finally get back to playing, your
users are going to notice a discontinuity
because the next content you are planning on playing
is no longer there and they have to skip ahead.
So it's key to the user experience
to be able to sustain playback.
So the best approach to delivering this kind of user
experience on the internet, the wide open internet,
is to encode multiple versions of your stream and to
have the client switch between them dynamically based
on its view of the current bandwith available to it.
That's what we do in HTTP live streaming.
And the way we express it is through
something called variant playlist.
Now a variant playlist is an M3U file like our
other playlists, the difference is that instead
of the URLs being media segment files, the URLs
are actually pointing to individual streams.
Each URL is prefixed by a tag that indicates information
about the stream such as the overall byte rate required
to sustain viewing it, to keep up with it, and
optionally some information about the codecs.
So the way this works on the client end is the
client starts by downloading the variant playlist,
this gives it a sense of which variants are available,
what kind of alternatives it has to viewing a stream.
It will then decide if and when to switch
based on current network conditions.
Now our current player algorithms have been tuned to
minimize the risk of creating that kind of network stall
that is so disruptive to a live streaming experience.
I think that this is pretty clear,
but the graphics guys got together
and created this really great slide,
so I have to show you this slide.
So let's say that you set up a live
playlist, you've got some content,
it's kind of a medium resolution, medium byte rate.
And you've got your playlist up there and segments
are appearing and disappearing through that playlist.
What if at the same time you put
those files up on your web server,
you also put two other streams up on your web server.
These are all peer streams, your client
could chose any one of them and play them
and get the regular streaming experience, it could play
the very low resolution one, the very low byte rate,
the medium resolution one, or the very high
resolution one at the highest byte rate.
Or you could put all three URLs for each variant stream
into a variant playlist file and give that to the client.
Now the client knows about the
existence of all three of these streams
and it can go back and forth between them as it chooses.
So let's see how that actually looks in a playlist file.
So again we have an extended M3U playlist
up here, it's got three URLs in it;
one for low, one for mid, and one for high.
Each URL is prefixed by that stream info tag, and
what each stream info tag is saying, first of all,
that all three streams are program ID1,
so they all refer to the same content.
The difference is that each one has a different bandwith.
The first one has a bandwith of 128 kilobytes per
second, the second has 256, and the third has 768.
So with this information, the client
can choose which one it wishes to play
and then switch between them as its network changes.
In our current implementation, the players will
actually start with the first URL in that playlist,
but that may change in subsequent release.
Another thing you can express with a variant playlist
is the set of codecs that are required to play a stream.
And this can come in useful in cases like this
Let's say that you decided that in addition to these three
streams, which you would expect pretty much any client
of your services to be able to play, you also wanted
to provide a higher byte rate stream
that had a much higher resolution.
And in order to achieve that resolution, you needed
to use some more advanced tools from the H.264 codec.
In that case, you could add something
like this to your playlist.
Now this fourth stream here in addition to having a
byte rate of 1.5 megabytes per second, has a codecs tag.
The codecs tag is formatted according
to the rules of RFC 4281.
I'll translate it for you.
That first element, AVC 177.40 indicates that
the stream requires an H.264 codec level four
or main profile level 4.0.
That second entry, MP4A.40.5 indicates that it
needs an audio codec which is HE-AAC version one.
So a Macintosh downloading this variant
playlist might well attempt to switch up to
that 1.5 megabyte stream because it knows it can play it.
Today's iPhones on the other hand will not because they
know that they don't have a main profile level for a codec.
Another thing that you can express with a
codecs tag is the fact that it's audio only.
The codecs tag when it's present
indicates the complete set of codecs
that must be installed in order to play the stream.
What that means is if you have something like this
you've got a fairly low byte rate stream at 64 kilobytes,d
you have a codecs tag that has only the HE-AAC entry.
Because there's no AVC in there, there's no video codec
in there, you can conclude that that stream is audio only.
And so you can add something like this so that your users
will switch down to an audio only version of your stream
in the case of an extremely low bandwith connection.
So what I'd like to show you now is what this
looks like when we put everything together,
and so I'd like to bring Bill up on stage again.
What we're going to start with
here is streaming on Snow Leopard.
So we're going to go into Safari in the browser, and
before we start playing, what we're going to start
with is an extremely low byte rate stream.
And if you watch it carefully, you'll see it switch up to
a higher byte rate once we decide we have enough bandwith.
So Bill can go ahead and play it.
>> At Accuweather.com through the afternoon and evening.
>> So it's opening in Snow Leopard here.
>>meteorologist, Dr. Joe Sobol.
>> And -
[ Music ]
>> And can we switch?
>> Here's positively the best place to start your day.
>> Let's run it again.
>> Here's where night lights up in the most unexpected way.
>> We'll close that and start it again.
>> Here's positively the best -
>> So you can see it's rally pixelated, it's a low frame rate.
>> Here's where your night -
>> This is about 200 kilobytes stream here.
>> -- in unexpected ways.
>> I think the previous time we went it switched
almost instantly, so we weren't able to see it.
But the point at which we switch is going to depend on a
number of things such as the cadence of the input file -
>> such as the cadence of the input file
>> -- and of the I frames that come in.
I can switch now, you can see the higher frame rate.
And so this is about a one megabyte
stream, it looks a lot better.
The other thing about HTTP live streaming
is that we have new transport controls.
And so if we can bring those up here.
So what we have on the left-hand
side is a back-30-seconds button.
And so if you click that, you'll drop
back 30 seconds into the stream so long
as there is enough media in the playlist file.
There has to be enough media in the playlist
file for us to seek backward 30 seconds.
So I want you to do that Bill.
And so we're going to jump back 30 seconds here,
we'll see this fellow we saw earlier,
and so he's talking about the weather.
I think I don't want to hear about
damaging storm threat on a Wednesday night,
so we're going to click the button the
right which is jumping back to live.
So we'll click that and now we're back to the live stream.
So those are how the transport controls work.
I'd like to show you the same thing running on an iPhone.
And so what Bill is going to do now is move away
from his Macintosh and go over to his iPhone.
So we have an iPhone up here.
We're going to tap our little web link, we go to the
same web page, and we're going to play the stream.
So we start playback here.
Chug, chug, chug.
>> The Big Book of Parenting Solutions
>> There we are.
>> Again we're starting with the low byte
rate stream here, it's low frame rate
and fairly pixilated, and I believe we just switched.
And so now we're at the full resolution
and the full byte rate.
We have the same transport controls
on the iPhone, so we tap that.
You can see the back-30 and the jump to live.
And so we can go back 30 even though
we didn't start watching
at the 30 second point, at least I trust that we can.
Here we are.
Um, how are we doing?
>> >>ABC News medical editor, Dr. Tim Johnson.
Dr. Tim.
>> Thank you, Tanya.
>> OK, so we've got the same transport
controls as we have on the iPhone.
>> -- is Dr. Michelle Borba
>> Great. Thanks, Bill.
>> -- who is an educational psychologist
>> OK. Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you very much.
So now let's take a look again behind
the scenes at what was going on there.
Again we started with an audio/video signal.
In this case, the AVC news feed was being fed by a satellite
to the Yahoo broadcast center
which is in Dallas, Texas.
The audio/video signal was then transferred
again to an Inlet Technologies Spinnaker 7000.
This time however, this Spinnaker instead of producing
a single MPEG2 transport stream and feeding it
to our segmenter on the Xserve, was producing two.
The Spinnaker 7000 has the cappability
to encode up to four real-time streams
at different resolutions and byte rates at the same time.
So for our demo, we set it up to encode two, one
at 200 kilobytes and one about 900 kilobytes.
And both of those transport streams are then fed over
multi-cast UDP across the local network to our XServe
which is running two instances of the segmenter application.
And each of which is producing its own list of segments,
its own playlist file, and placing them on a web server.
Now from there it's the same thing, the
web server axis and origin into Akamai,
the clients can then download those segment files
over a local edge server here in San Francisco.
So one thing you'll notice about that demo there was that
I didn't use a custom application, all I had was a browser.
It's not actually necessary to have an application to
deliver a great live streaming experience to your users.
It's great to have an application,
you can add new additional features
to it, and I'll show you one in a second.
But if all you want to do is deliver your live
stream and you don't want to get into the business
of running an iPhone application, we'd love for you
write an iPhone application, but you don't have to.
All you need is the server.
So let's take a look at what's necessary to do that.
The content deployment story from a server
for HTTP live streaming is pretty simple.
It breaks down into three steps.
The first step is you need to create
a continuous MPEG2 transport stream.
The second step is you need to divide that MPEG2 transport
stream into individual segments and create a playlist file.
Once you have those segments in that playlist file, the
third step is to simply serve them out over the web.
So let's look at each one of those.
To create your MPEG2 transport stream, you need an MPEG2
transport stream that contains H.264 video and AAC audio.
One of the benefits of using industry standards like
MPEG2 transport streams and H.264 and AAC is that hardware
and software, to produce these streams, already exist.
And we've been working with the leading vendors of encoding
hardware to tune their support for HTTP live streaming.
Now these boxes work really, really
well, but they're not cheap.
So an alternative is you can use software
to create your MPEG2 transport stream.
And in fact, there are some Open
Source packages that are capable
of producing transport streams that contain H.264 and AAC.
Less than a week after we publish the
specification for HTTP live streaming,
some folks in the Open Source community
got together to tweaking these packages
to work correctly with HTTP live streaming.
So this is fantastic.
So there are a number of tools that exist
today to produce these MPEG2 transport streams,
and we're confident that there
will be even more coming soon.
In any case, you've got your MPEG2 transport
stream, the next step is to segment it.
When you decide to segment, you have to make some choices.
The first choice you have to make is, are you going
to hold on to all your segments on your server forever
or for as long as the event lasts, or are you going
to throw them away as new segments are generated?
In other words, will your presentation be live or on-demand.
The second choice is, you have
to choose the target duration.
And remember, we had that target-duration
tag in the playlist file.
The target duration specifies the average duration
of each segment that you intend to generate.
Now there's a tradeoff here.
A long target duration, or any target duration really,
creates an inherent delay between the point at which you
on the encoding side receive your AV signal,
and the point where your user who is watching
at home, is able to see that event occur.
And the reason for this is because we can only
distribute segment files over HTTP once they're complete.
So let's say you chose a target duration of 20 seconds,
that means when you're dealing with a live stream,
you're going to have to sit there on the encoding end and
accumulate 20 seconds of media before you can place it
on your web server and make it available to users.
So they're going to have to wait at least
20 seconds before they can see those events.
So long target duration is good.
No, long target duration is bad.
Short target duration is good.
Unfortunately the flip side of this is
that the shorter your target durations,
the more often the clients will be requesting
playlist file updates from your servers,
and the more files you'll have in the pipe.
This isn't as much of a big deal when you're talking about
a few servers playing something off of a local HTTP server.
But once you're talking about distributing your stream
across the country and you've got a million users,
all those little requests really start to add up.
So we've done a lot of testing and we've
spoken to some large content delivery networks,
and we've ended up with a recommendation that ten seconds
produces a kind of nice balance between having kind
of a taped delay on the one hand that's
not too extreme, it's about 30 seconds
it's sort of akin to the delay you would see when
watching digital television broadcast over the air,
and having a network load that's not too outrageous.
So we recommend about ten seconds, but you can play around
with it in your own applications and see how it feels.
The next decision you need to make is the number of segments
that you'll have in your playlist at any given time.
This obviously applies only to a live playlist, for
an on-demand playlist you'll have as many segments
as there are, as you have duration of event.
But for a live playlist file, you
need to choose the number of segments.
Now you need to have at least three segments in your
playlist file at any given time, but you can have more.
And one of the advantages of having more
is it allows your clients to seek around.
It also allows them to pause for
a period of time and resume,
and still watch the live presentation and not miss anything.
Obviously if they pause for too long, then when
they resume they're going to go back to live.
But if you give them a nice long window in which they
can seek, then we will also pause for that period of time
and they won't lose any of their presentation.
So we think that's a pretty nice user experience, and so
we recommend that when you create your playlist files,
when you set them up, that you set them
up to have at least 60 seconds of media
in each playlist file and more if you choose.
In any case, once you've decided how you want your
playlist file to look, the next step is to create it.
And here we have a couple of choices.
The first choice is you can use our media stream segmenter.
This is a tool that you can download
from the iPhone developer center,
it's also available on the Snow Leopard seed [phonetic],
so there's a couple of different ways to get it.
The way it works is it's a command line tool,
it will consume an MPEG2 transport stream either
from a Unix pipe or from a UDP socket.
And as it consumes the MPEG2 transport stream,
it writes out these individual segment files.
It will also in the case of a live stream,
delete all segment files as they roll off the top
of the playlist so your hard disc doesn't fill up.
It can also encrypt the segment files as it
writes them out to disc, and finally has an option
to produce an audio only stream and one of the MPEG
elementary streams from and MPEG2 transport file.
So you can use this to provide a low byte rate audio only
stream of your stream switch to varying presentation.
So this media stream segmenter tool runs on any Macintosh
that can run Snow Leopard, so it's pretty flexible.
But we recognize that there are a lot of situations in which
you can't run Snow Leopard, you may not even have Macintosh,
particularly in a lot of the dedicated
live video production workflows.
And so the second option is that we have written
a complete specification for HTTP live streaming,
and we have published it through
the IETF as in internet draft.
Now this specification has all you need to
know to write your own segmenting tools,
and it's not actually that complicated of a job.
We've already worked with several folks who've been able
to build their own segmenters and they're working great.
So this is definitely an option for you if you decide
that you don't want to use our segmenter for any reason.
Once you have your segments and your playlist
file, the final step is to serve them over the web.
In some respects this is the most
straightforward part of it.
You can use any standard web server,
you don't have to add any kind
of additional mods or plug-ins or anything like that.
The only configuration you have to do is you have
to configure the delivery of those playlist files.
And there are two things that we recommend you do; the
first is to set them up to deliver a MIME type.
We recommend that you use application/x-mpeg/url,
you can also use audio/mpeg/url instead.
You also need to configure the time to deliver
those playlist files, and that should be the same
as that value that you chose for the target duration.
If you're encrypting your segment files, then you
also have to set up some sort of access control system
so that only authorized users are
able to retrieve those keys over HTTP.
And if you're employing a CDN, then you need to
transfer those files to your CDN and you can use any
of a variety methods for this, you can use something
like Akamai's net storage system, you can use FTP,
you can use Rsync, whatever your CDN supports.
They're just like any other file at that point.
And in fact, one of the advantages we have of using
vanilla HTTP to deliver these live streams is
that you can use some of the techniques that you
already know around HTTP to do some really cool things.
Now I'd like to show you an example of
one that a vendor that we were working
with came up with that we thought was really cool.
So imagine for a moment that you have a
server and it's streaming say a hockey game,
and it's accumulating the stream as
an on-demand presentation playlist.
So as segmenter generator being added to a
playlist it's growing and growing and growing.
You can use server-side scripting
to add a feature to your application
of being able to watch a highlight clip of that game.
And the way it would work would be this: let's say
that in addition to producing this on-demand playlist,
every time a goal was scored, the server used the new push
notification services that are available on iPhone OS 3.0
to send a notification to your application on the iPhone.
If your application wanted to display this highlight to the
user, it could package up the event ID and the notification
into a query parameter of a URL, and then send
that to your server with a request to play it.
The server could parse out that query parameter, recognize
the event idea as, Oh, this is highlight number three,
this is the third goal in the game, it happened
13 minutes and 12 seconds into the game.
And it could then dynamically using a
server side scripting tool like PHP,
it could dynamically assemble the relevant sections from
the on-demand playlist and create a highlight playlist
that contained only those segments that
contained the action around the goal,
deliver it back to your application,
you could then play that.
And so that's really kind of a clever technique to adding
a nice feature like highlight clips to your application
with just a little bit of server-side scripting.
So to recap content deployment, you first have to create
your MPEG2 transport stream, H.264 video, AAC audio.
You have to break it up into segments
and produce that playlist file,
and then you just have to serve it over to the web.
So it's pretty straightforward.
And we've seen folks get this kind of streaming
deployment running in just a small matter of days,
and so it's actually pretty straightforward to do.
We're at the end.
OK, let me summarize.
So using HTTP live streaming, you can now deliver live
content to your users on iPhone and on Snow Leopard.
You can create multiple byte rates of
your streams and multiple qualities
so that your users get a good user experience even
if they're on a mobile device like the iPhone.
We use standard movie formats or standard media formats
so that you can use existing hardware and software
to produce those streams, some of
which you may find you already own.
Because we're using Vanilla [phonetic] HTTP, we
can use existing internet infrastructure to scale
to extremely high demand and you can do it
without breaking the bank, which is important.
And finally, we have created this public specification for
HTTP live streaming, and it's available through the IETF.
And in fact, we've just uploaded a new version of
that to the ietf.org, and so if you haven't read
or even if you've read it before, I encourage
you to download it again and check that out.